Add doc for Weather Station SWS 12500 (#26275)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/sws12500.markdown

---
title: "Sencor SWS 12500 Weather Station"
description: "Integration of SWS 12500 weather station."
ha_release: "2023.1.8"
ha_category: Weather
ha_iot_class: "Local Push"
ha_config_flow: "true"
ha_codeowners:
  - '@schizza'
ha_domain: sws12500
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
---

> *Integrates your weather station seamlessly into Home Assistant.*

Reviewer: Unneeded emphasis.

```suggestion

Integrates your weather station seamlessly into Home Assistant.
```

> This integration will listen for data from your station and passes them into respective sensors.
> Also you are able to push data to Windy API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration will listen for data from your station and passes them to respective sensors. It also provides the ability to push data to Windy API.
```

## Requirements

- [Sencor SWS 12500 Weather Station](https://www.sencor.cz/profesionalni-meteorologicka-stanice/sws-12500)

> - Station set to send data directly to Home Assistant

Reviewer: As a new user, I would be confused by this. Line, what does it mean? What do I have to do?

> - Open communication between station and Home Assistant

Reviewer: What does this mean?

> - [Sencor SWS 12500 Weather Station](https://www.sencor.cz/profesionalni-meteorologicka-stanice/sws-12500)
> - Station set to send data directly to Home Assistant
> - Open communication between station and Home Assistant
> - If you want to push data to Windy, you have to create account at [Windy](https://stations.windy.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Sencor SWS 12500 Weather Station](https://www.sencor.cz/profesionalni-meteorologicka-stanice/sws-12500).
- Station set to send data directly to Home Assistant.
- Open communication between the station and Home Assistant.
- If you want to push data to Windy, you have to create an account at [Windy](https://stations.windy.com).
```

> ## Configure your station in AP mode

Reviewer: Is this a prerequisite? If so, I would expect it to be a subheading of the above?

You need to configure your station in AP mode to send data to your local Home Assistant installation.

> - hold WiFi button on the back of station for 6 seconds until AP will flash on display.
> - select your station from available APs on your computer
> - connect to station's setup page: `http://192.168.1.1` from your browser
> - in the third URL section fill in address to your local Home Assistant installation
> - fill in `ID` and `KEY`. You can use [online tool](https://www.allkeysgenerator.com/Random/Security-Encryption-Key-Generator.aspx) to generate random keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Hold the Wi-Fi button on the back of the station for 6 seconds until the AP will flash on the display.
2. Select your station from available APs on your computer.
3. Connect to the station's setup page: `http://192.168.1.1` from your browser
4. In the third URL section fill in the address to your local Home Assistant installation.
5. fill in `ID` and `KEY`. You can use [online tool](https://www.allkeysgenerator.com/Random/Security-Encryption-Key-Generator.aspx) to generate random keys.
```

![station_setup](/images/integrations/sws12500/station_hint.png)

> Now *Let's add the integration to Home Assistant*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

Once integration is installed to Home Assistant, you need to provide set of `API_ID` and `API_KEY` as you defined them in your station:

```plain
API_ID: ID in station's config
API_KEY: PASSWORD in station's config

> ```

Reviewer: This is unclear? After the integration is set up? Where?  How? Why?

> If your security data is changed for some reason, you need to reconfigure the platform.

Reviewer: This is not something the user should need to know? I assume Home Assistant will ask  for it?  Or?

Author: No, Home Assistatnt would not know if user changes ID or KEY in the station. If HA receives data with wrong ID or KEY it will assume, that somebody else is trying to send wrong data and blocks communication.

> As soon as the integration is added into Home Assistant it will listen for incoming data from station and starts to fill sensors as soon as data will first arrive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As soon as the integration is added into Home Assistant it will listen for incoming data from the station and starts to fill sensors as soon as data will first arrive.
```

## Resending data to Windy API

> - first of all you need to create account at [Windy stations](https://stations.windy.com). Once you have an account, copy Windy API Key

Reviewer: Where how why?

> - provide Windy API key to SWS 12500 integration

Reviewer: Where? How? Why?

> - tick `Enable` checkbox

Reviewer: ?

> - first of all you need to create account at [Windy stations](https://stations.windy.com). Once you have an account, copy Windy API Key
> - provide Windy API key to SWS 12500 integration
> - tick `Enable` checkbox
> - you are done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- First of all you need to create an account at [Windy stations](https://stations.windy.com). Once you have an account, copy Windy API Key.
- Provide Windy API key to SWS 12500 integration.
- Tick `Enable` checkbox.
- You are done.
```

---
title: "Sencor SWS 12500 Weather Station"
description: "Integration of SWS 12500 weather station."
ha_release: "2023.1.8"
ha_category: Weather
ha_iot_class: "Local Push"
ha_config_flow: "true"
ha_codeowners:
  - '@schizza'
ha_domain: sws12500
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
---
*Integrates your weather station seamlessly into Home Assistant.*

This integration will listen for data from your station and passes them into respective sensors.
Also you are able to push data to Windy API.

## Requirements

- [Sencor SWS 12500 Weather Station](https://www.sencor.cz/profesionalni-meteorologicka-stanice/sws-12500)
- Station set to send data directly to Home Assistant

> - Open communication between station and HA

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Open communication between station and Home Assistant
```
Right now I see a mixed use of `HA` or `Home Assistant`.

> - If you want to push data do Windy, you have to create account at [Windy](https://stations.windy.com)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you want to push data to Windy, you have to create account at [Windy](https://stations.windy.com)
```

## Configure your station in AP mode

> You need to configure your station in AP mode to send data to your local HA installation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to configure your station in AP mode to send data to your local Home Assistant installation.
```

- hold WiFi button on the back of station for 6 seconds until AP will flash on display.
- select your station from available APs on your computer
- connect to station's setup page: `http://192.168.1.1` from your browser

> - in the third URL section fill in address to your local HA installation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- in the third URL section fill in address to your local Home Assistant installation
```

- fill in `ID` and `KEY`. You can use [online tool](https://www.allkeysgenerator.com/Random/Security-Encryption-Key-Generator.aspx) to generate random keys.

>   ![station_setup](/images/integrations/sws12500/station_hint.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![station_setup](/images/integrations/sws12500/station_hint.png)
```

> Now *Let's add the integration to HA*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now *Let's add the integration to Home Assistant*
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

Once integration is installed to Home Assistant, you need to provide set of `API_ID` and `API_KEY` as you defined them in your station:

```plain
API_ID: ID in station's config
API_KEY: PASSWORD in station's config
```

If your security data is changed for some reason, you need to reconfigure the platform.

> As soon as the integration is added into HA it will listen for incoming data from station and starts to fill sensors as soon as data will first arrive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As soon as the integration is added into Home Assistant it will listen for incoming data from station and starts to fill sensors as soon as data will first arrive.
```

## Resending data to Windy API

> - First of all you need to create account at [Windy stations](https://stations.windy.com). Once you have an account, copy Windy API Key

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- first of all you need to create account at [Windy stations](https://stations.windy.com). Once you have an account, copy Windy API Key
```
Be consistent whether you capitalize or not 😉

- provide Windy API key to SWS 12500 integration

> - tick `Enable` chcekbox

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- tick `Enable` checkbox
```
